I'm going to show you how to make a
really cool quilt flower and although it
is basic it is really cool and you can
do some fun things with it so this is a
great beginner lesson if you're
interested in learning quilling you can
see how I'm going to show you
step-by-step how to make this awesome
quilt flower
now of course quilling is more than just
flowers so I created the course that
goes into all different kinds of designs
I'll talk to you more about that after
your free lesson but here goes let's
make a quilt flower
now for this flower I'm going to show
you everything you need we're going to
do two of the hot pink two of the light
pink two of the teal and then one purple
now if you'll notice I'm using different
widths of the strip's here all of these
three colors are in 3/8 inch and then
this one is in 1/8 inch so it's okay to
mix and match or different widths if
you'd like now for this I'm also going
to be using a paper crimper this is a
large one you can get these in smaller
sizes and they're not that expensive but
it is nice to have on hand I'm also
going to be using a pair of fine tip
tweezers this is really helpful and of
course a slotted quilling tool you can
also use a needle tool if you'd like but
I find that the slotted tools really are
much easier to use especially for a
beginner and then you'll need some kind
of glue you always want to be sure that
you're using a clear glue and that it's
not going to be tacky so I'm just gonna
pull these apart the paper comes glue
together at the ends in a pack so I'm
going to pull those apart on either end
and then I'm going to clean off this end
and just make sure that I don't have any
glue because you don't want that there
you go and I've already went ahead and
done that with the other ones so first I
want to show you we're going to do six
petals for our flower I'm using an
entire strip here but I don't want it
that long so all I need to do so I'm
going to fold this over into thirds
so just folded it over into thirds and
then fold it down come up here and just
crease it down and then I know where to
just gently break it apart so there's
one strip tear it we never want to cut
it with the scissors it's much better to
tear it your glue will adhere much
easier there you go
so I have all of these strips in pink in
the same size now I'm going to do the
exact same thing with our light pink
move the other ones aside don't want to
work with this whole strip here because
my flower will be way too big so I have
two strips and I need to make them into
sects so all I'm going to do again is
just fold them into thirds
takes just a bit of practice with your
hands here you go I folded them into
thirds I'm just gonna fold it down there
we go and now I know where to pull it
apart just look at my crease marks and
then pull it apart there all right now
that I have all these together we're
actually gonna make this to color so
each petal is gonna have two colors so
I'm going to pull a light pink and a
dark pink then I'm gonna put a dab of
glue now if you see the glue there that
is way too much with quilling we want to
just use a tiny bit so I'm gonna go
ahead and just wipe it off as best I can
can you even use your needle tool if
you're not using that and then we're
just gonna overlap these ends just a tad
now you can also hold these together
with a pair of fine tip tweezers if
you'd like okay and as soon as that is
done we'll move it aside so it can dry
and we're gonna do the rest the same way
so I'm just gonna do the rest of these
gluing them together and then I'll meet
you right back here okay now that I have
all of my strips glued down together we
are gonna have some fun I'm gonna move
these aside so you can see what I'm
doing here now we're going to put it
through our crimper all you need to do
is insert it into the crimper just a bit
and then get a good tight grasp on it
down here then we're just gonna turn the
crank and it comes through
and out on the other side and it is
crimped paper it's just a really fun
just gives it a new dimension to your
quilling it's really easy that's all you
need to do and then look this is what it
turns out to be
you